# Focust

In my Interaction Design class, I was tasked to spend ten weeks redesigning and animating micro-interactions in an existing app. Using Figma and Adobe after affects I was able to redesign and animate an app called Flora. This is a study timer app that also doubles as a charity for planting trees. As you study a tree will grow on the app, if you cancel the study timer or go on your phone while the timer is running your tree will die. I used this app pretty frequently to keep myself focused and wanted to see where I could make improvements. My main goal was to add more fun and personality to the micro-interactions.

## Critique

This app was extremely well designed. I enjoyed the color scheme and simple graphics. However, the design did have some jarring interruptions. The keyboard and pop ups all were attuned to the classic apple popups. Personally, this was a jarring shift from the soft calmness of the app to a white harsh pop-up. 
I wanted to find a way to design pop-ups and keyboards to fit more cohesively into the design. I also wanted to add new interactions that would add to the experience. For example, during your study time you are allowed to set a break and you can start that break whenever you want. When this happens in the original app all that happens is the timer stops counting, and a break timer starts. Then a light gray overlay falls over most of the page. I felt this was good and subtle, but if the person was taking a break a small animation wouldn’t be too distracting.
I also wanted to add an animation of the tree growing as you study. In the original app there is just a steady background screen of a sprout. It doesn’t change until the end of the study timer and then a page pops up stating what type of plant you grew. When using the app, that sometimes was discouraging because all I would look at is how much time I had left to keep studying. I wanted a way to make it encouraging when a person glanced at their timer. 
Another feature on this app that would sometimes be discouraging was the list of “dead trees.” When you quit your study timer or go on your phone your tree can die, when this happens a record of the dead tree falls in lone with all of the other plants you have grown, dead or alive. I felt that it wasn’t the most encouraging or positive way to look at your progress and wanted to separate the successes from the technical failures. 

## Improvements

I started by redesigning all of the popups and keyboard to fit my new design of the app. This created a much more cohesive experience without jarring parts that would pull the user our of their focus. 
Next, I focused on new animations that wouldn’t draw focus away but could add encouragement. With my design, when the user pauses their timer clouds would roll in over the sun and pause the timer. This was a subtle animation that added a bit of storytelling, because, as we all know, plants can’t grow without sunlight. I also changed the format of the background of the timer to be dynamic and subtly changing over the study period. I added the sun so that it would gradually set until you finished studying. That way during studying, if someone were to look at the timer, they would see a change and know they had made progress. 
I also added an animation so that the tree would grow as time went on. This was so that the studier would be encouraged to keep going to see their fully grown tree. It seems silly, but often I would be spurred on by studying out of curiosity of what plant I would grow, so I figured watching the plant develop would be encouraging. Instead of only seeing how much time they have left to keep studying, they can look at how much progress they have made shown in the growth of the tree. 
With my redesign, I did an overall reorganization of the app in order to encourage the studier and create a more fun environment. I added a garden and a graveyard. Originally there was just a list of the trees that you had grown and the ones that had died intermixed. I separated them into two pages, each would had a scrollable section that showed all of the trees the user had grown/killed, then under there would be a list with the study stats of that growth period. 

## Reflection

This project helped me fall into a workflow that really worked for me as a designer. I enjoyed working in a mobile field and seeing the big effects small interactions could have. Using physical paper to sketch out any and all ideas was an exciting process that helped me think about the details of the site. I really enjoyed my final product. I spent an excess amount of time animating the timer and the keyboard. There was a filter I could have used, but it didn’t match my aesthetic goals. I enjoyed the product and am proud of the outcome of my brunt work.